<h1 align = center> Automatic_Certificate_Generator </h1>
<h3> Aim: </h3>Automatic Certificate Generation Using MATLAB
 

<h3>Significance of your project:</h3>
This project is used for generating certificates collecting participant's data from excel sheets. MATLAB is a versatile tool that can automate many tasks. Presented here is a MATLAB code to generate certificates for workshops, conferences, symposiums, etc. Conventionally, educational institutions and companies use specialised tools for report cards and certificates generation on a large scale. This MATLAB code can be extended to generate analysis reports for large data sets as well. This project can help save time and hustles and can arrange and manage certificates in an orderly manner.
Analysis and presentation of large data sets is a tedious task in applications such as Big Data, IoT, and sensors-actuators modeling. The project presented here can be extended and customized for analysis and reports generation in these applications.
certificates generated by the program can be saved in a folder with a unique filename
 

 

<h3>Module and libraries used:</h3>

The filename(xlsread) reads the first worksheet in the Microsoft® Excel® spreadsheet workbook named filename and returns the numeric data in a matrix.
imread(filename) reads the image from the file specified by filename, inferring the format of the file from its contents. If filename is a multi-image file, then imread reads the first image in the file.
insertText(I,position,text) returns a truecolor image with text inserted. The input image, I, can be either a truecolor or grayscale image.
Etc
 

 

<h3>Procedure:</h3>

Read an Excel sheet containing details. Text is read from the file
seperately from numbers.
Read blank certificate image and
Obtain topics from the txt variable which are in 3rd column
combine names and topics.
Obtain positions to insert on the image, MSPaint or any image editor.
Provide parameters for function inserttext.
Font size is 22 and opacity of box is 0 means 100% transparent
generate and save files with .png extension

<h3>Future scope:</h3>
Analysis and presentation of large data sets is a tedious task in applications such as Big Data, IoT and sensors-actuators modelling. The project presented here can be extended and customised for analysis and reports generation in these applications.
